docs/wiki.md, before:

# wiki setup

to actually use teawiki, you'll need a git repo that will contain all the pages
of your wiki, this documentation explains how you can setup this repo

## creating pages

after initializing an empty git repo, you can start creating pages

you can think about a "page" as a single article, each page is just a single
file, and all the pages use the `.md` (markdown) extension

however the pages are not ordinary markdown files, each page contains two
different sections

the first section is the "metadata" section, it contains information about the
page itself, and the second section is the "content" section, which contains
actual page contents

the section are split by using `%%%`, which should come after a newline, and it
should be followed by another newline

### metadata

page metadata is formatted with YAML, and it can contain few different keys, but
the most important (and only required) key is the `title` key, this key
specifies the title of the page, here is an example:

```yaml
title: i386
```

another key you can use is the `image` key, which when specified will create an
[infobox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infobox) with the specified image, for
example:

```yaml
image: images/i386.jpg
```

this looks like:

![](/assets/infobox1.png)

lastly you can use the `fields` key to create an infobox with custom key-value
paired fields:

```yaml
fields:
  - name: launched
    value: October 1985

  - name: discontinued
    value: September 28, 2007
```

you can also add links using to these fields:

```yaml
- name: predecessor
  value: Intel 80286
  link: i80286.md

- name: successor
  value: i486
  link: i486.md
```

this looks like:

![](/assets/infobox2.png)

### content

actual content of the pages is formatted with markdown, the markdown renderer
teawiki uses, [blackfriday](https://github.com/russross/blackfriday), supports
multiple extensions that are enabled:

- **no intra-word emphasis**: emphasis markers are ignored inside words
- **tables**: support for
  [markdown tables](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#tables)
- **fenced code**: support for
  [fenced code blocks](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#fenced-code-blocks)
- **definition list**: support for
  [definition lists](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#definition-lists)
- **footnotes**: support for
  [footnotes](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#footnotes)
- **auto URL linking**: automatically detects URLs and link them
- **heading IDs**: automatically creates IDs for headings, you can also specify
  custom IDs using `{#id}` syntax, this is useful because IDs are used link the
  headings
- **backslash line breaks**: converts trailing backslashes to line breaks

please note that these extensions are not part of the
[CommonMark standart](https://commonmark.org/), you should avoid using these if
you want your wiki to stay compatible with other markdown processors

## special pages

some pages have special uses in the wiki, the most important one is the
`README.md` page

if you create a page in the `README.md` file, this page will be used as the
default/index page for whatever directory it's in, and the directory will be
visible in the page listing section of the sidebar

for example, if you create a page in `/README.md`, that will be the index page
for your wiki and it will be displayed whenever users visit `/`

similarly, if you create a page in `/unix/README.md`, that will be the index
page for the `/unix` directory, and it will be displayed whenever users visit
`/unix`

the other special page is `/LICENSE.md`, if you create page at this location, a
link for it will be added to the navigation bar, and users will easily be able
to access it from anywhere

## other static content

anything that is not a page, will be served as a static file without any
rendering whatsoever

this means you can access & link all the images and other static content,
directly from the markdown content

for example let's say you have images under the `/images` directory, and you
want to use `my_image.png` in the page content, then all you need to do is:

```md
![my image](/images/my_image.png)
```

of course, you can also use relative paths

## using a local repo

if you are using a local git repo, you'll need make it accessible to the wiki
container

to do so you'll need to mount the repo to `TW_REPO_PATH`, for example if your
git repo is named `repo` and is located in the same directory with the compose
file, you can mount it like so:

```yaml
volumes:
  - ./repo:/tw/source:ro
```

for local repos, it's okay to use a read-only mount since teawiki does not need
to do any modification to the repo in order to load it's contents

when using a local repo, depending on how regularly you update the content, i
suggest you use a smaller `TW_RELOAD_INTERVAL` to keep the wiki content
synchronized with the actual git repo

## using a remote repo

if you are using a remote git repo, use the URL of the repo to configure
`TW_REPO_URL`, when the the wiki is started, the remote repo will be
cloned/pulled into `TW_REPO_PATH`, meaning you do not need to create a mount for
this path

however if you prefer to create a mount for some reason, make sure it's not a
read-only mount, as teawiki will need to modify the contents of the repo while
pulling content from the remote

when using a remote repo, i suggest you use a larger `TW_RELOAD_INTERVAL` to
prevent wasting bandwidth by sending too many requests to the remote server, and
ideally you should [configure a webhook](/docs/webhook.md) to keep the wiki
content synchronized with the git repo

Commit message:

update README and docs, add TW_DEBUG and page tags
Signed-off-by: ngn <ngn@ngn.tf>

docs/wiki.md, after:

# wiki setup

to actually use teawiki, you'll need a git repo that will contain all the pages
of your wiki, this documentation explains how you can setup this repo

## creating pages

after initializing an empty git repo, you can start creating pages

you can think about a "page" as a single article, each page is just a single
file, and all the pages use the `.md` (markdown) extension

however the pages are not ordinary markdown files, each page contains two
different sections

the first section is the "metadata" section, it contains information about the
page itself, and the second section is the "content" section, which contains
actual page contents

the section are split by using `%%%`, which should come after a newline, and it
should be followed by another newline

### metadata

page metadata is formatted with YAML, and it can contain few different keys, but
the most important (and only required) key is the `title` key, this key
specifies the title of the page, here is an example:

```yaml
title: i386
```

you can also specify multiple tags for a page, users can click on these tags to
view pages with the same tags and they can also search for these tags, which
makes it easier for users to discover similar pages:

```yaml
tags:
  - cpu
  - intel
  - x86
```

another key you can use is the `image` key, which when specified will create an
[infobox](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infobox) with the specified image, for
example:

```yaml
image: images/i386.jpg
```

this looks like:

![](/assets/infobox1.png)

lastly you can use the `fields` key to create an infobox with custom key-value
paired fields:

```yaml
fields:
  - name: launched
    value: October 1985

  - name: discontinued
    value: September 28, 2007
```

you can also add links using to these fields:

```yaml
- name: predecessor
  value: Intel 80286
  link: i80286.md

- name: successor
  value: i486
  link: i486.md
```

this looks like:

![](/assets/infobox2.png)

### content

actual content of the pages is formatted with markdown, the markdown renderer
teawiki uses, [blackfriday](https://github.com/russross/blackfriday), supports
multiple extensions that are enabled:

- **no intra-word emphasis**: emphasis markers are ignored inside words
- **tables**: support for
  [markdown tables](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#tables)
- **fenced code**: support for
  [fenced code blocks](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#fenced-code-blocks)
- **definition list**: support for
  [definition lists](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#definition-lists)
- **footnotes**: support for
  [footnotes](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#footnotes)
- **auto URL linking**: automatically detects URLs and link them
- **heading IDs**: automatically creates IDs for headings, you can also specify
  custom IDs using `{#id}` syntax, this is useful because IDs are used link the
  headings
- **backslash line breaks**: converts trailing backslashes to line breaks

please note that these extensions are not part of the
[CommonMark standart](https://commonmark.org/), you should avoid using these if
you want your wiki to stay compatible with other markdown processors

## special pages

some pages have special uses in the wiki, the most important one is the
`README.md` page

if you create a page in the `README.md` file, this page will be used as the
default/index page for whatever directory it's in, and the directory will be
visible in the page listing section of the sidebar

for example, if you create a page in `/README.md`, that will be the index page
for your wiki and it will be displayed whenever users visit `/`

similarly, if you create a page in `/unix/README.md`, that will be the index
page for the `/unix` directory, and it will be displayed whenever users visit
`/unix`

the other special page is `/LICENSE.md`, if you create page at this location, a
link for it will be added to the navigation bar, and users will easily be able
to access it from anywhere

## other static content

anything that is not a page, will be served as a static file without any
rendering whatsoever

this means you can access & link all the images and other static content,
directly from the markdown content

for example let's say you have images under the `/images` directory, and you
want to use `my_image.png` in the page content, then all you need to do is:

```md
![my image](/images/my_image.png)
```

of course, you can also use relative paths

## using a local repo

if you are using a local git repo, you'll need make it accessible to the wiki
container

to do so you'll need to mount the repo to `TW_REPO_PATH`, for example if your
git repo is named `repo` and is located in the same directory with the compose
file, you can mount it like so:

```yaml
volumes:
  - ./repo:/tw/source:ro
```

for local repos, it's okay to use a read-only mount since teawiki does not need
to do any modification to the repo in order to load it's contents

when using a local repo, depending on how regularly you update the content, i
suggest you use a smaller `TW_RELOAD_INTERVAL` to keep the wiki content
synchronized with the actual git repo

## using a remote repo

if you are using a remote git repo, use the URL of the repo to configure
`TW_REPO_URL`, when the the wiki is started, the remote repo will be
cloned/pulled into `TW_REPO_PATH`, meaning you do not need to create a mount for
this path

however if you prefer to create a mount for some reason, make sure it's not a
read-only mount, as teawiki will need to modify the contents of the repo while
pulling content from the remote

when using a remote repo, i suggest you use a larger `TW_RELOAD_INTERVAL` to
prevent wasting bandwidth by sending too many requests to the remote server, and
ideally you should [configure a webhook](/docs/webhook.md) to keep the wiki
content synchronized with the git repo
